Let's talk about the concrete implementation of linear regression we are going to use several libraries
such as the NAM pie and panderers and what's more important then seeking to learn is going to contain
the machine learning related algorithms such as linear regression logistic regression support vector
classifier and so on.
Of course in this case we are going to talk about linear regression implementation.
So that's why we have to import seeking to learn linear modal linear regression.
OK so first of all we have to Fadge the data set and we have to use the Pandurs that read C-s we in
order to read the dataset.
OK so this is the data that we are talking about.
We have lots of lots of columns such as date price number of rooms number of bathrooms.
What's important is that in our implementation we are dealing with a single linear regression which
means that we are going to predict the house prices based on square feet leaving feature.
Ok so first we read the data that it is going to be a data frame.
So we get the columns accordingly.
Well we just curious about the size and we are just curious about the price.
Okay.
Because machine learning algorithms handle arrays and not data frames.
That's why we have to transform and reshape these values.
So let's print out size and the price before the reshape operation.
Ok for example let's print out the size.
If we run it it's going to be a one dimensional array but as you can see it contains the IDs as well.
So we use this Nahm PI array that reshape minus one plus one in order to end up with the following data
structure that's printed out as well.
So let's print out x.
It is going to be the reshape size as you can see.
I'm going to get rid of this because we are going to deal with the x and y parameters.
These are the x values.
As you can see we have managed to get rid of the ids and there are the veil used exclusively.
OK.
So after the NUMP by array shape we have the x and y values the X are the sizes.
And why are the prices accordingly.
We just have to instantiate a linear regression class.
It is imported from seeking to learn that linear model.
Then we have defeated the model.
What does it mean if we call this fate on x and y basically under the hood the gradient descent algorithm
is going to make the optimization problem what does it mean exactly.
This is what we have been discussing in Antarctica lectures that we have defined the optimal B to zero
and B to 1 perimeters.
OK so the optimization problem is to minimize the mean square error which is the difference between
the predicted values and the actual values present in the data set.
We have to square area because we don't care about what paramita or is greater We just care about the
difference so that's why we square it.
So we want to find the minimum by tuning.
Dieter paramita urs OK and gradient descent is going to use these equations.
So this partial derivatives in order to find the optimal beat is 0 and B to 1 parameters.
OK so this is how we feel the model and find the optimal parameters concerning linear regression with
the map of the mean square error.
As you can see we have imported Skeete learn metrics means square arrow or we are able to calculate
the mean squared error and R squared avail you.
We are going to talk about it in the next lecture.
What's very important that we are able to get beat is zero and the better one Peramivir diabetes 0 is
going to be the modal Kohath 0 and intersect with index 0 as well.
What does it mean this beat is 0.
Is the intercept basically.
And in between is the slope.
So between 0 is going to define the intersect between the Green Line and the y axis.
So the price x is and the slope is going to be the slope of this given line.
So the model contains these parameters.
OK we are able to visualize the data that we drop off matplotlib that by plot.
OK we are going to use green dots as you can see and linear regression line will have the color black
linear regression will be the title of the plot the X label or the x axis are the sizes and or y axes
are the prices accordingly and the BLT that show is going to show the plot.
As you can see.
OK.
And then after training the model we are able to make new predictions.
This is exactly what we have been discussing that first we had a data that we are going to train the
algorithm on a despotically or data set which means finding the linear relationship between the age
X and X variables.
So gradient descent is going to find the beat is 0 and a B to 1 para meters.
And after we have trained the modal and found the optimal bit of values we are able to make new predictions.
So in this case we would like to predict the price of the house where the size is equal to 2000 square
foot.
OK.
And as you can see prediction by the model it is going to be the price associated with this size.
In the next lecture we are going to talk about a mean square error and R-squared A-Whale you because
after fitting the model OK we can't make predictions but somehow we have to check whether this model
is going to work fine in the sense that whether it is going to make good predictions or not.
As you can see it is not a good model.
So we are not able to find a linear relationship between the size and price of the house.
As you can see lots of lots of points are very very far away from the linear line we have found to be
linear regression.
So maybe it is not the best model possible and this is what we are going to talk about in the next lecture.
Thanks for watching.